Blackpink’s “Pink Venom” Video Is a Fashion Thrillride


Blackpink is back! Two years after their most recent single, 2020’s “Lovesick Girls,” everyone’s favorite K-pop girl group has been slowly teasing their upcoming second album, Born Pink, which is set to release next month—and today, they dropped the first single and music video from the record, “Pink Venom,” a typically rambunctious blend of thundering hip-hop beats and the delicate sound of a geomungo, or Korean zither.
Of course, this being Blackpink, their return came accompanied by an eye-popping music video, and the fashion didn’t disappoint. (There’s a reason Jisoo, Jennie, Rosé, and Lisa have all picked up major contracts with Dior, Chanel, Saint Laurent, and Celine respectively, after all.) The video features the kind of wildly eclectic style that has become the band’s signature, with a touch of something more dangerous in keeping with the song’s venomous sting.
The first clue that the group would be pulling out all the sartorial stops came with a teaser image for the video shared earlier this week, in which all four sported custom pink looks by Casey Cadwallader for Mugler. They showcased Blackpink’s softer side, without sacrificing the brand’s signature cut-out details. A second teaser photo leaned into the song’s darker edge, with the group wearing a quartet of Lara Croft-worthy cybergoth looks by the cult Bulgarian brand Demobaza featuring exaggerated shoulders, acid-washed black denim, and stompy, utilitarian boots that could have come straight out of the wardrobe trailer on the set of Dune.
The video itself begins with a playful nod to traditional Korean culture as Jisoo plucks out a melody from the zither while wearing a contemporary spin on the hanbok crafted by the next-generation couturier Miss Sohee, and Cartier jewelry. Then Jennie struts down a red carpet laid out in front of a monster truck wearing a sheer, flowing blood-red gown by Pieter Mulier for Alaïa and black GCDS heels. 
Lisa shows off her signature streetwear-inflected style in a very ’90s look of a cropped basketball shirt by the Korean brand Neon Genesis Oddity and denim overalls topped off with a bucket hat by Hedi Slimane for Celine. (“Masked up and I’m still in Celine,” she sings in the song’s second verse.) Finally, Rosé shows up in a latex mini dress decorated with jewelry by her perennial favorite brands Saint Laurent and Tiffany & Co.
And if you thought this fashion rollercoaster would end there, well, you’d be wrong. A standout look by Jennie includes a cropped Manchester United jersey paired with layers of Chanel pearl necklaces and a Vivienne Westwood choker, while Jisoo has a more classically elegant moment in a white Marina Eerrie corset dress featuring strap details across the bustier and flowing skirt—and that’s without even mentioning the endless of array of very on-theme footwear, from Rick Owens high-top sneakers worn by Rosé to Jennie’s thigh-high Chanel rubber boots.
What lends Blackpink their special magic is the way in which, much like some of the most beloved girl groups before them, each member has now firmly established a distinct fashion identity that neatly reflects their various personalities. With the debut of their most bombastic style vision yet in “Pink Venom,” it seems that Blackpink is, once again, in your area—and showing up in the utmost style.