Online learning, will it be the next renaissance in education?       On January 20, 2020, CDC reported the first laboratory-confirmed case of Coronavirus in the U.S.; consequently, a simultaneous surge in positive cases was reported worldwide. With an unknown respiratory virus and no cure yet found, our everyday life has changed dramatically. With no other choices left, educational institutions had to replace in-person classes with online classes. While some welcomed this change warmly, others vociferously argued that we should go back to the traditional method. Peter C. Herman, one of the advocates of traditional in-person education, in his “Online Learning Is Not the Future,” develops his arguments by citing “digital native” (Herman) students’ voices on online learning. Herman states that while non-students, like politician or journalist, argue for prolonging online education, students are on the exact opposite that “there is no desire, no groundswell to make the change permanent.” (Herman) Although I agree with Herman up to a point, I cannot accept his overall conclusion that online learning is not the future. By adopting an online module, education can be done anywhere, anytime, without borders. Unlike what Herman argued, online learning creates much more diverse interactions than in-person classes. The technology could also generate a significant synergy effect for students and instructors.       First and foremost, I disagree with Herman that online learning hinders students from experiencing “genuine education” (Herman) since plenty of interactions occur in an online learning environment. Throughout his article, Herman strongly argues that students could not engage actively with video lectures or learn from other students by suggesting interview excerpts of his students. For instance, one of Herman’s students said, “we basically have to teach ourselves. It’s like paying tuition to watch YouTube videos.” (Herman) Herman explicitly criticizes online learning as a platform where no immediate interaction occurs. However, I disagree with Herman for this point because I believe that genuine education is not a unique phenomenon that only happens in an in-person environment; instead, it should happen everywhere where dialogue exists, as Socrates said. In other words, with an environment that allows students to actively and simultaneously have a discussion or express their ideas with other students or professors, genuine education can happen all the time. Herman overlooked that online learning involves a lot of different teaching methods. For instance, through Zoom, a video telephony software program, students can actively engage in a dialogue, ask questions to professors, and even do the peer learning activity. Top Hat, a dynamic courseware platform that the majority of the universities in the U.S. use, defines online learning as “a method of education whereby students learn in a fully virtual environment.” (Top Hat Glossary) This virtual environment refers to an entirely internet-based environment. Students might experience only one-way instruction in pre-recorded video lectures, as Herman criticized throughout the article. However, many web-based remote learning methods allow students and instructors to actively and simultaneously engage in various conversations, which fill a virtual classroom full of dialogues. Top Hat enhanced those simultaneous online education with a time limit quiz program that allows instructors to recognize the current level of understanding in students and students to engage in the lecture actively, preventing them from various distractions on the web. Even in the recorded lecture environment, software tools like Geogebra enable those enrolled in online classes to engage in the lecture rather than just staring at the monitor. Using Geogebra, an interactive application designed for handling geometry, algebra, statistics, and calculus, instructors could design their courses to make students simultaneously apply what they have learned while watching lecture videos. As a result, students can experience various interactions even when they are in an entirely online environment.       Furthermore, I believe that by borderless online learning, we could eliminate the obstacles in learning and spread the value of education. According to Herman, online learning has removed the opportunity to make human connections, a valuable soft skill that higher education institutes like universities should teach students. It is true that the pandemic has lengthened physical distances between people by creating a social distancing movement, but does this distance caused a loss of environment where we could learn those critical values? elements, such as facial emotions, tone, non-verbal body language, or even the smell of others’ perfume. As a result, some could argue that creating social bonds or rapport in virtual setups is hard. Although I grant those who argue that remote settings disturb social connections, I still maintain that an online environment enables students to learn the essential life skills of making human connections. Students can also practice those skills since they can simultaneously talk and respond to each other in an online setting where participants can see others’ facial emotions or body language. They could also learn online etiquette, which is essential, especially in a highly digitalized world. However, I want to focus on this ‘environment’ more deeply. The online environment is borderless. Without borders that prevent diverse students, such as international students and students with severe health risks, from getting equal education experience, higher education institutions could encompass much more diverse groups of students and eventually achieve the true value of education. The opportunity that the online environment opened is much more significant than Herman assessed. Missing various key groups while conducting his interview narrowed his vision of viewing this problem, thus concluding that online learning took away students’ opportunities rather than presenting numerous new opportunities for a larger student body. He missed STEM majors, who could find out that online learning provides the same quality as before, immunocompromised students, who had a significant educational gap due to this pandemic, or veteran students. After an online learning experience, Mr. Goldberg, a 24-year-old law student at Arizona State University who has a chronic inflammatory bowel disease, realized, “why can’t I get these accommodations all the time?” (Morris & Anthes) They deserve the right to have the same accommodations as other students, and online learning would be the start of this change. Change in the traditional education system is crucial as the world changes over time. I believe that by this ‘borderless’ online learning, we could remove the barriers and spread the value of education to a more inclusive student body.       Last but not least, technology rich environment in conjunction with traditional face-to-face method could enhance the quality of learning. As demonstrated by Herman, most English majors felt online learning was the same quality as watching a YouTube video, thus feeling the costly tuition was not worth it. On the contrary, my experience could confirm that online learning reflects that hefty tuition. I took Calculus 1 at Boston University in the Summer 2022 semester. Between the two options, either in-person or online, I chose the online option for several reasons. To list some, I could still take synchronous discussion sessions held by the professor, adjust lecture sessions with my internship schedule because the lecture was pre-recorded, and reduce overall costs since the travel fee alone cost over $1500. Like Herman, I had doubts about having a college course in an online environment. I was worried about unexpected technical problems that could occur during discussions or exams and many other issues I have seen in the news article. Nevertheless, when the actual semester started, I was surprised by how could the course proceeded so smoothly without any problems that I had anticipated. I was able to use plenty of online resources, which were free to use, such as BU library resources, Blackboard, and expensive software tools like MATLAB. There was also an online education coordinator who handled every issue during the semester. After the course ended, I felt that technological advancement and its adoption made education more universal. Reframing my daily schedule due to the time zone difference was quite uncomfortable. Also, making office hour appointments where I could ask questions regarding the lecture or homework was difficult due to time zone differences. Nevertheless, the advantages overshadowed this little difficulty. Furthermore, even returning to entirely in-person in the Fall 2022 semester, many instructors chose to implement online technology with their courses. For example, Introduction to Computer Science 1 and Programming for Engineers utilized asynchronous video content with in-person lectures and lab. Students view the videos before the lecture and reinforce their understanding with in-person lectures and lab sections. Most chemistry and biology professors at BU use the Top Hat platform during an in-person lecture to check whether students follow the course well. In conclusion, with active use of online technology, students could have a better quality of education.       To sum up, I disagree with Herman’s point that colleges should fully return to the traditional in-person style rather than prolonging online learning. Online learning could provide a genuine education experience and create a place where much more diverse interactions occur than in-person classes. More specifically, this borderless environment, with no restrictions such as limited enrollment or limited space, could remove barriers and spread the true value of education to everyone. Also, with the aid of technology, students can experience a much better quality of education than before. Though online learning option is now unavailable for most universities in the United States as experts are gradually in control of the pandemic, this historical change in education from in-person to universal online learning is essential to reshape the future of education. We should not just replace one with another; we should approach this problem with a cooperative view to harmonize those two different but alike types of education.       Works CitedHerman, Peter C. “Online Learning is Not the Future of Higher Education.” Inside Higher Ed, 10 June 2020, https://www.insidehighered.com/digital-learning/views/2020/06/10/online-learning-not-future-higher-education-opinion. Accessed 27 September 2022Morris, Amanda, and Emily Anthes. “For Some College Students, Remote Learning Is a Game Changer.” The New York Times, 23 Aug. 2021, https://www.nytimes.com/2021/08/23/health/covid-college-disabilities-students.html. Accessed 27 September 2022“Online Learning Definition and Meaning.” Top Hat Glossary, 2 Oct. 2020, https://tophat.com/glossary/o/online-learning/. Accessed 27 September 2022